README.md, before:

# Minecraft clone

A minecraft clone for me to practice 3d games.

Uses OpenGL 3.3 and SDL for platform layer.

## Goals
- [x] Collision & physics
- [x] Block mining
- [ ] Clouds & Sky - Perlin noise relatistic clouds 
- [x] Ambient Occulsion of blocks mult-threaded
- [x] Multi-threaded chunk generation
- [x] Tree & grasses generation
- [x] Water generation with alpha 
- [x] Health, Stamina & Item Hotbar
- [x] Coal & Ore generation & better world generation 
- [x] Load 3d models & skeletal animations from gltf file
- [x] Load 3d models & animations in minecraft format from BlockBench
- [ ] Grass animated with Perlin Noise
- [ ] Environmental Sounds (walking on different materials like stone and grass. Point sounds)
- [ ] Cows, Sheep & Zombie Mobs 
- [ ] Snow and cliffs (learn more about simplex noise & SIMD library implementation of it)
- [ ] Attacking mobs 
- [ ] Cave generation
- [ ] Day & Night cycle
- [ ] Greedy meshing
- [ ] Shadow Mapping (Cascading Shadow Maps)
- [ ] PBR shading & materials
- [ ] Point & Directional lights
- [ ] Server side application to run on a Rasberry Pi 4 that accepts TCP (block transactions) & UDP (entity positions) packets using Berkely Sockets API (learn about writing a server and running it, and learn about cyber security concepts in practice)
- [ ] Release game on steam as professional as possible - just exe & asset bundle 

## WHY's
- [x] Fun & Challenging to program
- [x] Get as good as I can at programming
- [x] Add to my projects list
- [x] Build confidence

![](screenshot2.png) 

## Building on Mac OS
run ```./run.sh``` to build and run the program.

Commit message:

added frustrum culling of chunks

README.md, after:

# Minecraft clone

A minecraft clone for me to practice 3d games.

Uses OpenGL 3.3 and SDL for platform layer.

## Goals
- [x] Collision & physics
- [x] Block mining
- [ ] Clouds & Sky - Perlin noise relatistic clouds 
- [x] Ambient Occulsion of blocks mult-threaded
- [x] Multi-threaded chunk generation
- [x] Tree & grasses generation
- [x] Water generation with alpha 
- [x] Health, Stamina & Item Hotbar
- [x] Coal & Ore generation & better world generation 
- [x] Load 3d models & skeletal animations from gltf file
- [x] Load 3d models & animations in minecraft format from BlockBench
- [ ] Change to smaller blocks
- [ ] Grass animated with Perlin Noise - just triangles as grass blades
- [ ] Clip the world that's being rendered to the view frustrum. 
- [ ] Greedy meshing optimisation
- [ ] Environmental Sounds (walking on different materials like stone and grass. Point sounds)
- [ ] Cows, Sheep & Zombie Mobs (move player movement code to be generic to any entity movement)
- [ ] Snow and cliffs (learn more about simplex noise & SIMD library implementation of it)
- [ ] Attacking mobs 
- [ ] Cave generation
- [ ] Day & Night cycle
- [ ] Shadow Mapping (Cascading Shadow Maps)
- [ ] PBR shading & materials
- [ ] Point & Directional lights
- [ ] Server side application to run on a Rasberry Pi 4 that accepts TCP (block transactions) & UDP (entity positions) packets using Berkely Sockets API (learn about writing a server and running it, and learn about cyber security concepts in practice)
- [ ] Direct3d 11 & Win32 Api backend
- [ ] Release game on steam as professional as possible - just exe & asset bundle 


## WHY's
- [x] Fun & Challenging to program
- [x] Get as good as I can at programming
- [x] Add to my projects list
- [x] Build confidence

![](screenshot2.png) 

## Building on Mac OS
run ```./run.sh``` to build and run the program.
